All right guys we're gonna get started so you should have in your section files you should have this
project resources folder which has all the images that we need for the project as well as the typewriter
script that we're going to include for the effect on the home page.
So what we're gonna do is create a new folder for our Web site and just gonna call this portfolio Web
site and inside here we're gonna have a disk folder.
So going to create a folder called dist which is gonna be all the files that we would deploy the standard
CSF files and so on outside of this will have our SAS files and everything.
So in this disk folder we want to take the image and the javascript folder and just bring that in.
OK so now what I'm gonna do is open up our portfolio Web site folder with VSO code and we should have
a disk folder with the image in the javascript.
All right.
So in addition to image in JavaScript in our disk folder I'm going to create for now just our Index
study HDMI out we'll create the rest of the e-mail files later.
Now we need to get SAS set up so I'm going to be using Node SAS so I'm gonna open up my integrated terminal
here and to install node SAS we need NPM installed which comes with no J.S. so if you don't have that
on your system just go to no J.S. dot org and download and install it and then just do an NPM dash dash
version just to verify that you actually have NPM installed.
OK.
So first thing we want to do here is do NPM and net which will initialize a package dot Jason File which
is basically like a manifest file that has some info about the app as well as the.
Any packages we install such as node SAS.
So let's just hit enter here description.
I'm going to say portfolio websites and we'll just go through all the rest of this.
OK.
So that will create a package dot Jason outside of your dist folder and what we want to do now is install
node SAS.
We're gonna say npm install node dash SAS and we can install this as a dev dependency so we're just
going to do dash D because it's only used in development
and that should get.
That should show up right here.
Good.
So in order to you know use node SAS we need to create a script so I'm going to replace this test with
SAS so that we can just do NPM run SAS and we want it to run node SAS we want it to watch.
So we're going to do dash w a folder called SPSS Slash.
So it's going to watch that folder for any SAS files and then the output of the regular CSX is going
to go to dist slash CSX like that and then we're just going to add dash dash recursive on the end.
So that's the command that we want to run when we run node SAS.
I'm sorry NPM run SAS so let's save that and now what we'll do is create our SPSS folder make sure this
is outside of your dist folder you want it outside because this isn't something that you're going to
deploy when you put this on a server.
This is just for development.
This stuff gets compiled down to regular CSX inside of our dist folder.
All right.
So let's create our main SAS file.
We're going to have a couple of them but we're going to create our main one so I'm just going to call
it main dot SPSS and let's just do for now just to make sure everything works will create a variable
called Color and let's set that to red and then let's just put in our body and let's do background and
set that to the variable color.
OK so I'm going to save this and nothing's going to happen because we didn't run NPM runs SAS I'm going
to clear this up down here and just to NPM run SAS and now what it's doing is watching the SAS folder
and in anytime we save it's going to then compile it into dist CSX.
OK.
Now we didn't create CSX in it'll actually create it for us.
So if I just do anything just put a character in and delete it and save.
You'll see now it created a CSX folder with a main dot CSX file and it's just standard CSX.
OK.
And that's what we would deploy.
So from here on out you don't want to touch this CSX file you want to strictly deal with SAS.
All right.
Now the next thing I want to do is go to our index each team now let's put some boiler plate in here
and let's see we'll just do for the title let's say I'm going to put John Doe what you can put your
own name and let's just say UI UX designer and photographer.
So that's that's basically what this fictional character specializes in.
If you're going to use this I mean I give you guys permission to use this as your portfolio if you want.
You'll just have to change things around to whatever it is you specialize in.
OK.
So let's see we want to include our main CSX files so let's do that.
We'll put in a link to CSX slash main dot CSX and we also want font awesome so I'm just going to jump
into chrome real quick
and let's go to font awesome dot com start using free and then we'll grab this link right here and let's
put that right above the main dot CSX like that all right.
And then in the body for now let's just put an H1 and we'll just just say hello just to make sure that
we can that this works.
All right.
So if I go ahead and run this with live server I'm going to right click and say open with live server
we should get a red background.
Okay.
And the reason for that is because in our SAS file we set the variable to read.
We set the body background to that variable node SAS comp. It when we saved it into CSX the main dot
CSX.
And then that's being included in our index each team.
Okay.
So that's gonna be our workflow from now on.
Now what I'd like to do before we start with the markup with the h to L is import our font.
We're gonna be using a font called DOCSIS or doses.
I'm not exactly sure out of how you probably pronounce it.
And then set up some variables and also just set some of our core styles like the reset some of the
body styles and so on.
All right now I'm going to close this main dot CSX because I want to be careful not to touch that.
We only want to be dealing with our SAS files so let's first grab the font.
So I'm going to go to Google fonts or what is it fonts Doc Google.
And we're gonna go ahead and do a search for DOCSIS Deo s I s hit this plus sign and go down here and
let's grab the link right here and paste that in.
Let's go right above our six main CSX file and now we should be able to use this font family OK so I'm
going to grab that and then we'll go into our main dot SPSS file to get rid of this.
We're not gonna be using that and in our body let's say font it's just paste set in so font family DOCSIS
sans serif.
And if I save that it should show up.
If we go back and you can see now the fonts changed.
OK.
So let's add just some some core styling here.
As far as the reset goes the body stuff like that.
So I'm just gonna put a comment here and just say General styles OK so our reset.
I just want to clear the margin and padding for everything.
So margins zero padding zero.
And let's take for the body we're gonna set ups we already did the body what am I thinking we're get
to move this let's actually just move this down here
that and aside from the font family hopes let's add a line height
and let's make that one point six.
And then the background is just going to be white.
OK.
Now four links.
So on all links to I want to remove the underline.
I'm going to do tax decoration.
None.
And for the color we're gonna use the dark color variable so before we move on I'm going to go into
my SPSS folder.
I'm going to create a new file I'm going to call this underscore config dot SPSS.
So this is gonna be a partial that we include and this is where I want to put all of our variables.
All right.
So let's go ahead and say variables
and let's see we'll do I want to have a Web site with so we can change that easily if we want.
So we're gonna change that.
We're gonna set that to 12 80 pixels by default.
All right.
And then let's do the main dash color and we'll set that to f f b c 0 0.
So it's kind of like a yellowish color and then I'm going to set a light and a dark color.
OK so the light color is gonna be f for three times as a light gray and then the dark color is gonna
be three three three.
OK let's also do a medium color as well so we'll say medium dash color and that's gonna be CCC.
All right.
And then the last thing I want to set is the background image so that we can easily change that.
So BGP image and set that to you are Al and in here we want to do dot dot slash.
I am G slash and it's gonna be the showcase image showcase dot J Peg.
All right.
Now you might notice that this location doesn't pertain to where we currently are in this in the SPSS
folder.
We're not going out and then into image because image is actually in the disk folder.
However when we compile our SAS we're gonna be in the C Ss full there so we want to make sure that our
location to any images pertained to being in this file.
OK so hopefully that makes sense.
We want to go out of this CSX into the I'm sorry into the image folder.
Ok so keep that in mind when you're dealing with SAS so let's save this and let's bring this in to our
file here.
So remember to bring in a partial we just use at imports and then we'd use just the name not the underscore
or the dot SPSS just simply config.
And that should bring in our variables.
And then for the tag I'm going to set the color to the dark color.
The downside about putting your variables in a separate file when using P.S. code is they don't show
up automatically.
Like if you put a number sign.
I'm sorry a dollar sign and you have the variables in the same file you'd get a little dropdown with
the variable names but we're not going to get that because they're in a separate file.
And you don't have to put them in a separate file if you guys see something that you want to do differently.
That's absolutely fine.
In fact I encourage that.
I don't encourage a straight copying everything.
You know if you have your own ideas or your own your own ways of doing things.
So it's for the wells.
Let's do a list style none because I don't want any bullets anywhere on the site.
And then I actually want all of the headings to be uppercase.
So I'm going to say h to h three H for.
Yeah.
Do I want the H ones.
Yeah it's just the H two H three N H for that I want uppercase so let's do text transform and set that
to uppercase OK.
And then all the images by default should have a width of one hundred percent.
So we're just keeping them in their containers.
OK.
So I think that's pretty much it as far as just the core styles and obviously we haven't done any nesting
or anything because we haven't had to.
These are just these are just core general styles.
So let's go out and save that.
And it should update.
So if we take a look I mean actually there's nothing really to update because we don't have any content
but those styles should be in effect.
In fact if we look at the source code and we look at our main CSX you'll see we have those styles and
we have three three three for the color for the tag which is actually our SAS variable for dark color.
All right.
So I think that that's as far as I want to take it in this video and the next one we're gonna start
working on our markup case we'll start down here start creating the header area with the NAV via the
logo and all that stuff.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.